Israeli tanks have reached the center of
Southern gaza's main city Kan Yunis the
Israeli Army earlier told civilians to
evacuate and fierce battles have been
reported in the area the Hamas run
health authority in Gaza says almost
18,000 people have been killed there
since fighting started Israel was
rejecting international calls for
humanitarian ceasefire saying it is
determined to push ahead with its
offensive against Hamas militants Hamas
is designated a terrorist organization
by multiple
countries another day of Destruction
begins in Gaza in can yunes people wake
to find nearby buildings in Ruins
following Israeli air
strikes and their neighbors stuck under
Rubble they were like any other Ordinary
People they prayed at night and slept a
normal routine in Gaza we said our
evening prayer and we woke up with a
roof falling on our
heads for those who do survive the
situation in Gaza is
dire it's getting colder outside
thousands are injured and medical
supplies are running low there's barely
any food or
water and very little Aid is trickling
in desperate people have tried stealing
supplies as misery grows in Gaza so also
do calls for a ceasefire
but one was blocked last week at the UN
Security Council vetoed by the
US that veto has been heavily criticized
by Regional leaders meeting in
Doha it's not up to Israel only it is
those who have give those who have given
the Israelis the greenest of the green
light to continue killing the
Palestinians for United States to block
a United Nations security resolution one
should hold the Americans responsible as
part of the launching attack on the
Palestinians in Gaza and the West
Bank other Arab leaders say the actions
of Israel's armed forces are harming its
own interests and damaging the chances
of Peace Israel has created an amount of
hatred that will haunt this this this
region that will Define generations for
come and therefore it's hurting its own
people as much as it is hurting
everybody else in the region this is a
war that canot be
one Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has said the war in Gaza will
only intensify over the next few days
and that there will be no end until
Hamas is
eliminated let hear from journalist Sami
so in Jerusalem Sami uh strong words
there by Jordan's foreign minister does
he have a
point I think many would agree with some
of the things that he's saying uh the
images that are seen here in networks of
Israel bombarding residential areas
Israel bombarding hospitals Israel
killing women and children all of this
very aggressive campaign and especially
the site of Palestinian leaving their
homes and wandering again this is what
many Arabs see as another nakba another
catastrophe the same kind of catastrophe
that hit the Palestinians in 1948 if not
worse then there were 800,000 who left
their homes today we're talking about
more than double so this is the kind of
atmosphere that the foreign minister is
talking about and already now the
Israeli government has been warning its
citizens not to visit tourist
destinations in Turkey in the Sinai in
the Southern siai and in neighboring
countries now Jordan's foreign minister
of course speaking about a time after
the war does the Israeli government have
a plan for the Gaza Strip after this
offensive well usually they tried to
keep it a little bit obscure but
recently Israeli media has published a
document that came out on the 13th of
October and this is a document that was
produced by the ministry of intelligence
and there they they check the different
options one of them is a Palestinian
State and there they say that that is
not an option and that the Palestinians
should not get a prize for this attack
that they waged on the 7th of October
the other would be the ruling of a local
government and they say that would not
work either because because of the
Israeli occupation they expect that the
elements in the Gaza Strip will be more
radical than Hamas and therefore the
option is to expel the Palestinian
population to the Sinai and settle them
in Egypt in the Sinai and the the first
stage would be building tents there and
then more
permanent towns and then the next stage
would be encouraging them maybe to leave
to other countries and they mentioned
Spain and Greece and Canada I can tell
you that the Egyptians are not happy at
all with this plan and they've said that
the Palestinian question has to be
resolved in pal
there has to be a Palestinian state in
the Gazza strip West Bank in East
Jerusalem and not on Egyptian soil and
this has been a source of tension
between the two countries the Egyptians
have also built a kind of like a mount
of Earth along the border between the
Gaza Strip and the Sinai in order to
prevent movement of refugees that might
spill over to their
territory Sami Soo then in Jerusalem
thank you very much for sharing your
expertise with us un Secretary General
Antonio Gutierrez says he expects public
order in Gaza will soon break down
diseases will spread and there will be
Mass displacement into
Egypt I said that we are facing a severe
risk of collapse of the humanitarian
system the situation is fast
deteriorating into a catastrophe with
potentially irreversible implications
for Palestinians as a whole and for
peace and Security in the region
chairman foreign minister analina verok
warned that hunger in Gaza could lead to
more terrorist
incidents the Israeli Army must do more
to protect civilians in
Gaza it's not enough to Simply instruct
them to seek protection when there is in
fact no protection possible on the
ground we are seeing how not just the
suffering but the hunger is fueling
further
terrorism our correspondent Tanya ker is
standing by for us in Jerusalem hello
Tanya the International Community is
increasing the pressure on Israel but
will this change anything in
Jerusalem well we don't see any change
and I don't think the Israeli government
right now is yielding to any of such
calls we've heard so these calls also in
the past weeks so we heard again this
morning uh Israeli Prime Minister
Benyamin netan saying that uh stopping
the war right now would be inconsistent
with their goal to eliminating uh Hamas
we've heard other Israeli officials um
saying uh similar uh things as well in
the past days they're pressing ahead and
actually we're seeing intensified uh
intensified fighting uh in Gaza across
the whole Gaza Strip but we also heard
katari officials saying that they are
still pushing uh for negotiations Qatar
being uh one of the main mediators
between uh Israel and Hamas alongside
Egypt and the United States of course
indirectly um saying that they are
trying to uh stop the war to get to some
humanitarian ceasefire but also uh to uh
free some more hostages but they're also
saying that the window is becoming very
narrow because of the ongoing
bombardment of the Gaza Strip and and
also of course this comes uh after the u
United States vetoed un Security Council
call for a humanitarian ceas by on
Friday as you see the fight is
intensifying it's both in the North and
South isn't
it it is at the moment what we're
hearing uh from the Israeli military
they have given us an updated uh uh
statement this morning with their uh
ongoing military activities saying they
have have struck over 250 targets by
Sunday morning within the last 24 hours
and we've seen mainly getting reports
from the north uh of Gaza in the jabalia
refugee camp but also from Eastern Gaza
City in J but mainly uh also from the
south uh um there a lot of fighting
there's a lot of fighting going on in KH
Yunis which is the second largest city
uh in uh the Gaza Strip and of course
this has devastated
devastating impact on the civilian
population uh they have been called on
you know to evacuate again from these
areas a bit more about the situation of
civilians in Gaza it is quite dire isn't
it it is and uh I've been talking to
people there on the phone of course as
journalists we are not allowed to go in
um they've been telling me for weeks now
that they have no safe space uh to go
many of them have been displaced in the
first weeks of the war from the north to
the South they have been displaced many
times you know to different locations
always looking for a safer spot but also
of course air rates uh and air
bombardment is going on as well in the
north as well as in the South the United
Nations have said that uh about an
estimated 80% of the Gaza the population
in Gaza has been uh displaced and of
course the situation gets more dire by
the day they're also saying they have
difficulties now in reaching uh people
with humanitarian Aid because of the
Intensive fighting uh going on as well
in the South to correspondent Tanya kma
in Jerusalem thank
you let's bring in Frank lewi he's a
senior lecturer in strategic studies at
Portsmouth University a former uh
British Military Intelligence officer as
well now how close is Israel to achieve
its stated goal to eradicate Hamas
entirely
well good evening Gart over the last
couple of days the IDF has stated that
it thinks that it's probably got about
three to four weeks of operations left
just in
hanun the US indicated their preference
that you that Israel cease operations by
the end of this year the end of this
month that's not going to happen because
after hanun they reckon on another few
weeks to clear the rest of the
strip that said there is no doubt
whatsoever that they are making a big
impact on Hamas they claim and I think
fairly reasonably to have killed about
7,000 Hamas operators and captured some
more however that's a fraction I think
probably a fairly large fraction of the
Hamas Force so there's a long time to go
of course the countervailing pressure is
the US here and how long the US
essentially and to a less extent is is's
other allies such as Germany will
tolerate the level of Civilian
casualties now talking about civilian
casualties many Palestinians have been
displaced to the south of the country
that's where the current offensive is
pointing how is Israel trying to avoid
civilian casualties
there it's always important to remember
here that there's a bright line between
the deliberate murder torture rape and
other Horrors that we saw just over two
months ago all of which was deliberate
added to which of course is hamas's use
of its main defensive weapon which is
its civilian population and the assaults
by Israel now that said Israel has
certainly eased the early in the war
actually eased its Rules of Engagement
meaning that civilian casualties
collateral damages it's horribly called
called is is far more likely now Israel
has a targeting system which is based
allegedly on on artificial intell Ence
it generates huge numbers of targets so
for example today the IDF said that it
had hit 22,000 targets within Gaza now
you can't avoid civilian casualties like
that especially when you're operating
like that you can't conduct the
estimates or the surveys necessary to
provide I think a a reasonable level of
protection to civilians question is is
this proportionate that's not for me to
answer there is no doubt however that
United States has put pressure on Israel
equally no doubt I think that Israel has
largely uh not answered the leverage
that the US is trying to apply hence the
continuing level of casualties which I
think In fairness to Israel has reduced
over the last week or
so the military analyst Frank ledwich
there thank you very much
Frank thank you sir we're now joined by
Hiba T she's Deputy Regional director
with heal organization care hello hea
the International Community is putting
pressure on Israel to protect civilians
in Gaza could this help in any
way good afternoon IDI uh so far we have
seen that since many many days no one
expected that after almost two months we
will be having this conversation and
explaining that the situation is
becoming more and more harsh and
catastrophic yet we are hearing the
people in Gaza we are hearing the
colleagues in Gaza we are hearing other
peer organizations different actors all
of them trying to their
to put an end and reach out to seize
fire we remain hopeful and we hope that
that this will be happening and it can
be happening it can happen soon uh so we
remain hateful hopeful and we hope that
these this these efforts will will make
a difference we saw that they made a
difference even if slightly during the
truth and now we are hopeful that it
will have a longer impact you've been
speaking to people on the ground in Gaza
what are they telling you
so uh unfortunately week after week we
were saying that the situation is become
more difficult and worse Unfortunately
today um if I can just share with you a
very bad uh uh image or a photo of what
my colleagues were telling me um with
all the the images that we see with
destruction in the north and potentially
in kanun now you you would see in the in
in ra and the surrounding area that as
per my colleagues were describing it a
sea of people sea of human beings there
is no one space one empty space for an
additional tent and not even a a tent
but these wood with plastic sheets
shelters that people are trying to have
no no trees are remaining in the South
because people use them for for heat
purposes or for cooking purposes they
don't have food they are more thirsty
more hungry more in pain but as I
mentioned although they at a certain
moment feel that they are abandoned and
in danger still hopeful for a solution
that can come in in the near future and
you've also talked about uh kids that
are traumatized with the ongoing
conflict that must also be a critical
situation isn't
it uh only today a couple of hours ago
we were talking about specifically the
situation of kids here in in Jordan with
different actors and unfortunately even
those who are interested to for instance
in the educational sector everyone was
saying that in addition to to the
difficulty with all the destruction for
instance of schools and infrastructure
related to education one of the major
barriers that we are facing is related
to psychological trauma of what the kids
have seen and how how many how months it
would require them to go back to a
potentially normal life they expect not
less than 24 months for the kids
specifically to to be able to go back to
a as close as possible to normal life
unfortunately right so what can your
organization do to
help so far what we have been focusing
on and this is our specialty is related
to health sector H we were also working
with people to distribute water and what
we call Hygiene kits and with the
beginning of winter we focused on on
securing blankets thermal blankets
um mattresses any items that would help
would help people to to survive the
harsh weather but also to to Bear
sleeping in in in in the air with no
shelters of course what we have done is
very very little compared to the
requirements but even a drop in the
ocean makes a difference right here
about TV of Care thank
you thank you so
much